applications: nrf_desktop: Add wheel documentation (#1125)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/wheel.rst

.. _wheel:

wheel module
############

``wheel`` module is responsible for generating events related to the rotation of
the mouse wheel.

Configuration
*************

Module is enabled by ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_ENABLE``.

For detecting rotation ``wheel`` uses Zephyr QDEC driver. Module can be enabled
only when QDEC is configured in DTS (:option:`CONFIG_HAS_DTS_QDEC` is set).

QDEC DTS configuration specifies how many steps are done during one full angle
rotation. Sensor reports rotation data using angle.
``wheel`` configuration option
``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_VALUE_DIVIDER`` is used to convert obtained
value of angle into value passed to HID data subscriber.

> For example configuring QDEC with step 24 means that for each step sensor will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, configuring QDEC with 24 steps means that for each step the sensor will
```

> report 15 degrees rotation. For HID to see this rotation as increment of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
report a rotation of 15 degrees. For HID to see this rotation as increment of
```

> one ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_VALUE_DIVIDER`` should be set to 15.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one, ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_VALUE_DIVIDER`` should be set to 15.
```

Implementation details
**********************

> ``wheel`` can be in following states:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``wheel`` module can be in the following states:
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank line.

Author: done

    * ``STATE_DISABLED``
    * ``STATE_ACTIVE_IDLE``
    * ``STATE_ACTIVE``
    * ``STATE_SUSPENDED``

> When in ``STATE_ACTIVE`` ``wheel`` will enable QDEC driver and wait for callback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When in ``STATE_ACTIVE``, ``wheel`` enables the QDEC driver and waits for callback
```

> When in ``STATE_ACTIVE`` ``wheel`` will enable QDEC driver and wait for callback

Reviewer: This section begs for an MSC diagram.

> indicating rotation. QDEC driver may consume power during its operation. If no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that indicates rotation. The QDEC driver may consume power during its operation. If no
```

> rotation is detected after time specified in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rotation is detected after the time specified in
```

> ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_IDLE_TIMEOUT`` ``wheel`` will switch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_IDLE_TIMEOUT``, ``wheel`` switches
```

> to ``STATE_ACTIVE_IDLE`` in which QDEC is disabled. In this state rotation is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to ``STATE_ACTIVE_IDLE``, in which QDEC is disabled. In this state, the rotation is
```

> detected using GPIO interrupts. When this happens ``wheel`` switches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detected using GPIO interrupts. When the rotation is detected, ``wheel`` switches
```

back to ``STATE_ACTIVE``.

> When system enters low power state ``wheel`` goes to ``STATE_SUSPENDED``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the system enters the low power state, ``wheel`` goes to ``STATE_SUSPENDED``.
```

> In this state rotation is detected using GPIO interrupts. Module will issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this state, the rotation is detected using the GPIO interrupts. The module issues
```

> a system wake up event when wheel movement occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a system wakeup event on wheel movement.
```

.. _wheel:

wheel module
############

``wheel`` module is responsible for generating events related to the rotation of
the mouse wheel.

Configuration
*************

Module is enabled by :option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_ENABLE`.

For detecting rotation ``wheel`` uses Zephyr QDEC driver. Module can be enabled

> only when QDEC is configured in DTS (:option:`HAS_DTS_QDEC` is available).

Reviewer 2: option is available or selected ?

Author: let's change it to `set`

QDEC DTS configuration specifies how many steps are done during one full angle

> rotation. Sensor reports rotation data using angle.

Reviewer 2: (in degrees) ?

``wheel`` configuration option
:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_VALUE_DIVIDER` is used to convert obtained

> value of angle into value passed to HID data subscriber.

Reviewer 2: Mention that subscriber receives data in steps ?

Author: I would live it as is. Adding more explanation would require explaining more where these data go and so on, complicating this doc.

Reviewer 2: ok

For example configuring QDEC with step 24 means that for each step sensor will
report 15 degree of rotation. For HID to see this rotation as increment of
one :option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_VALUE_DIVIDER` should be set to 15.

Implementation details
**********************

``wheel`` can be in following states:

    * ``STATE_DISABLED``
    * ``STATE_ACTIVE_IDLE``
    * ``STATE_ACTIVE``
    * ``STATE_SUSPENDED``

When in ``STATE_ACTIVE`` ``wheel`` will enable QDEC driver and wait for callback
indicating rotation. QDEC driver may consume power during its operation. If no
rotation is detected after time specified in
:option:``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_SENSOR_IDLE_TIMEOUT`` ``wheel`` will switch
to ``STATE_ACTIVE_IDLE`` in which QDEC is disabled. In this state motion is
detected using GPIO interrupts. After motion is registered ``wheel`` switches
back to ``STATE_ACTIVE``.

When system enters low power state ``wheel`` goes to ``STATE_SUSPENDED``.
In this state rotation is detected using GPIO interrupts. Module will issue

> a system wake up event when motion occurs.

Reviewer 2: rotation occurrs (motion is related to motion_events)

Author: I wanted to use it as a synonym to not repeat rotation

Author: rephrased few things

.. _wheel:

wheel module
############

The ``wheel`` module is responsible for generating events related to the rotation of
the mouse wheel.

Module Events
*************

+----------------+-------------+--------------+-----------------+------------------+
| Source Module  | Input Event | This Module  | Output Event    | Sink Module      |
+================+=============+==============+=================+==================+
|                |             | :ref:`wheel` | ``wheel_event`` | :ref:`hid_state` |
+----------------+-------------+--------------+-----------------+------------------+

Configuration
*************

The module is enabled by the ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_WHEEL_ENABLE`` define.

For detecting rotation, ``wheel`` uses Zephyr's QDEC driver. The module can be enabled
only when QDEC is configured in DTS (:option:`CONFIG_HAS_DTS_QDEC` is set).

The QDEC DTS configuration specifies how many steps are done during one full angle
The sensor reports the rotation data in angle degrees.

> ``wheel`` configuration option

Reviewer: There is something wrong with lines 28-31. I guess lines 28 and 29 can be removed, and lines 30-31 are their new version.

Author: Thanks. I missed it. This is the merging issue.
